---
layout: post
title: "Vim"
date:  2015-11-18
---
###What is Vim?

Vim is a text editor that is built right into the terminal.  No installation required.  Just open up the terminal and type `vim -filename-`

When I first opened it I was fairly confused - you can't type in the way you think you should be able to.  All keys do "nothing" and even quitting seems impossible.

To quit, type <esc> then `:q`.  

###What makes it special?

It's designed so that your hands never need to use the mouse.  Instead there are an endless number of keyboard shortcuts that can be used to quickly maneuver around the document.

For example:  `w` will bring you to the next word while `b` will bring you to the previous word.  `r` will allow you to replace whichever character is currently highlighted.  To type normally, press `i` to type wherever the cursor is or `o` to start on a newline (or about a million other shortcuts `a`, `O`, `A`... to start typing in various positions).

Basic maneuvering around the document is accomplished with `h` and `l` (left and right) and `j` and `k` (down and up).

###How can you learn it / Remember all of the Shortcuts?

Well, I've been practicing it for about 2 hours and I've already got somewhat used to it.  The best way to learn it is by using the built in tutorial, type `vimtutor` into your terminal.  It should take you about 30 minutes to complete the tutorial.

After that, any questions (like what keeps happening when I press `m`) can be solved by typing `:help m`.  This will bring up a handy dandy help menu.

###David - Are you actually going to keep using it?

Eh, probably here and there.  You can set it to display with syntax highlighting which sweetens quick previewing your files in the terminal.  The fact that you never leave the terminal is nice.

I will miss the aesthetics and ease of sublime, but vim is probably more fun to use.

###Intrigued?

Open terminal, type `vimtutor` and see where it takes you.
